[Music]
so get this you're doing some chores or
lazing around and you hear that
unmistakable hiss oh is that a snake in
my house now you're not one for exotic
pets which means you've got a slithery
uninvited visitor hmm let's see question
one why is it here and question two how
do I get rid of it yeah I'll bet you're
that calm here we go a two-parter snakes
will try to come indoors in extreme
weather
remember that snakes are cold-blooded
reptiles which means their environment
is what controls their body temperature
versus mammals like you and me we have
warm blood that keeps us mostly cozy no
matter what the weather is if it's
scorching or raining buckets out there
they'll seek refuge in an unsuspecting
house they may be looking for a cool
damp spot to chill down like a basement
or shelter from the rain so that it
won't destroy their nest on that note
where will snakes try to hide along with
the basement snakes may try to hide in
your walls attic and crawl spaces these
areas are dark mostly cold and sheltered
so they're perfect real-estate for a
snake can make itself at home places
like these are also common hidey holes
for mice and creepy crawlies that make
for some tasty meals in the snakes eyes
if there's access to some snake cuisine
it just may move in permanently lucky
you and once they settle down for good
snakes will nest in your house if they
can if you've got those perfect
conditions a snake will build its nest
in your home and then you'll have a big
problem on your hands
building a nest means potential egg leg
depending on the size of the species
they can lay between six and 100 eggs at
a time how did it get in my house anyway
you shouldn't find any Boas in your
humble abode
snakes found in houses are usually on
the smaller side because they can wiggle
their way in through small cracks
openings and any weak spots in your hob
if they get in through the basement or
attic they likely found a crack or gap
you didn't even know was there okay
understood
but how common is it to find a snake in
the house well it's more common than you
think
in some places snakes are part of the
daily life and are as common a pest as
mice or mosquitoes for example it's
normal to beat the bed with a stick
before climbing in so that you won't
find yourself lying next to a snake ooh
sweet dreams where you live and what
preventive measures you take more on
that later
will determine how often don't have to
deal with snakes indoors sorry Fred you
and that snake have been waiting there
so patiently okay so now for the most
important question how do you get rid of
the dang thing step 1
any guesses stay calm I know it sounds
like cliche advice when dealing with a
potentially dangerous situation but
remember the golden rule when it comes
to wild animals it's more scared of you
than you are a bit if you're waving your
arms around screaming at the top of your
lungs and reaching for a shovel then
you're gonna scare that thing into
making the first move
also known as some razor-sharp fangs
coming straight from whatever part of
you they can get to first that or the
snakes flight mode will kick in before
the fight and it'll dart to an
unreachable place then you'll really be
out of luck step 2 get any kids or pets
out of the area before you do anything
clear the room Sparky's got to go some
are safe and mr. whiskers - oh yeah and
besides the kids don't forget your pets
either hey all jokes aside pets and
children are smaller than you are and
they move more unpredictably this may a
Janu legless home invader when dealing
with snakes you should always make your
moves quiet and slow if you think a pet
or child has been bitten take them
straight to the vet or Hospital step 3
determine if the snake is poisonous when
all else fails ask
name a bite will not only be painful but
possibly dangerous to try to get a good
look at it without disturbing it and
read about poisonous snakes that can be
found in your area you should ideally do
that research before your first
rendezvous time is of the essence here
it's usually small snakes of the garden
variety that hang out in backyards these
types may not be venomous but a snake
bite can also make you sick if the
species is poisonous though then skip
the step 7
not right now I've got some useful tips
here step 4
you're still with me right okay guide
the snake outside with a burrow only do
this if you're sure the snake isn't
venomous set up barriers as best you can
to keep it in that one room and open the
door to the outside gently guide the
snake through a path to the exit don't
use a poking motion nobody likes being
poked snakes included just pushing the
broom behind it should do the trick step
5 if the broom method didn't work
restrict its ability to move cover the
snake with a big blanket or put a
laundry hamper on top of it with the
open side down this will give it just a
small space to move in if the snake is
surrounded by darkness and can't see
it'll calm down and give you time to
think this also keeps the snake in one
place so you know right where it's at
step 6
get the snake outside again only attempt
this if you know the snake isn't
venomous the safest way to hold one is
under its belly near the tail don't
squeeze too hard you'll hurt the poor
guy and well you probably won't react in
a courteous way hold the snake as
securely as you can while keeping it
away from your body get it outside and
release it far from your property if you
cover this thing with a blanket you can
scoop the blanket up and gently wiggle
it outside to let the little guy go step
call animal control preferably the first
step no matter what kind of snake you're
dealing with but again time is of the
essence and you don't want that thing
getting away
before the pros get there this is
undoubtedly your first move if you know
the snake is venomous anyway Animal
Control will have special equipment to
remove the snake safely and give them a
call if the snake is hiding but you know
it's there
when in doubt leave it to the
professionals 8 try a DIY snake trap all
you need is a plastic water bottle
scissors and snake food if you use a
soda bottle wash it thoroughly
so no more smells come from it and screw
the cap on tight cut a hole at the
opposite end of the bottle that's just
big enough for the snake to fit through
you can find snake food at your local
pet store edges making way slide some
into the bottle
so that it's close to the cap in set
your trap where you've seen the snake
and check it every day once you've
caught it call your local pest control
to come get it 9 prevent any future
visits make sure any cracks gaps or
holes around your home are sealed
check your attic basement and crawl
spaces thoroughly because they might be
easy to miss in these areas you can also
prevent snakes from showing up in the
first place by getting rid of other
pests they see as food like mice
squirrels and other small animals if
you're having a consistent snake problem
first get rid of any nesting birds
around your yard
since the eggs make for a tasty treat
for the snakes
just to clarify and it's time for me to
make like a snake and slithered out of
here hey if you learned something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
here are some other cool videos I know
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the brights